<!-- @format -->

# Introduction

Laravel provides three primary tools for command-line interaction:

1. The installer
1. Artisan is a suite of built-in command-line actions **with the ability to add more**
1. Tinker, an REPL or interactive shell for your application e.g php artisan make:controller PostController

Artisan is actually a layer on top of the Symfony Console component

## Basic Artisan Commands

- `clear-compiled`
  Removes Laravel’s compiled class file, which is like an internal Laravel cache; run
  this as a first resort when things are going wrong and you don’t know why.

- `down, up`
  Puts your application in “maintenance mode” so you can fix an error, run migrations, or whatever else, and restores an application from maintenance mode, respectively.

- `dump-server`
  Starts the dump server (see “Laravel Dump Server” on page 225) to collect and output dumped variables

- `env`
  Displays which environment Laravel is running in at the moment; it’s the equivalent of echoing app()->environment() in-app

- `migrate`
  Provides help for a command; for example, php artisan help commandName

- `optimize`
  Clears and refreshes the configuration and route files.

- `serve`
  Pins up a PHP server at localhost:8000. (You can customize the host and/or port with --host and --port.)

- `tinker`
  Brings up the Tinker REPL, which we’ll cover later in this chapter

- `stub:publish`
  Publishes all stubs that are available for customization.

- `docs`
  Gives you quick access to Laravel docs; pass a parameter and you’ll be prompted to open the URL for those docs, or don’t pass a parameter and you’ll be able to navigate a list of documentation topics to choose from.

- `about`
  Shows an overview of your project environment, general configurations, packages, and more

### Options

Before we cover the rest of the commands, let’s look at a few notable options you can pass any time you run an Artisan command:

- `-q`
  Suppresses all output
- `-v`, `-vv`, and `-vvv`
  Specifies the level of output verbosity (normal, verbose, and debug)
- `--no-interaction`
  Suppresses interactive questions, so the command won’t interrupt automated processes running it
- `--env`
  Allows you to define which environment the Artisan command should operate in (local, production, etc.)
- `--version`
  Shows which version of Laravel your application is running on

### The Grouped Commands

The rest of the commands available out of the box are grouped by context. We won’t cover them all here, but we’ll cover each context broadly:

`auth`
All we have here is auth:clear-resets, which flushes all of the expired pass‐ word reset tokens from the database.

- `cache`
  **cache:clear** clears the cache,
  **cache:forget** removes an individual item from the cache, and
  **cache:table** creates a database migration if you plan to use the database cache driver.

- `config`
  **config:cache** caches your configuration settings for faster lookup; to clear the
  cache, use
  **config:clear**.

- `db`
  db:seed seeds your database, if you have configured database seeders.
- `event`
  **event:list** lists all the events and listeners in your application, event:cache
  caches that list,
  **event:clear** clears that cache, and
  **event:generate** builds miss‐
  ing event and event listener files based on the definitions in EventServiceProvider. You’ll learn more about events in Chapter 16.

- `key`
  **key:generate** creates a random application encryption key in your .env file.

- `make`
  Each of the make: actions creates a single item from a stub and has parameters that vary accordingly. To learn more about any individual command’s parameters, use help to read its documentation. For example, you could run php artisan help make:migration and learn that you can pass `--create=tableNameHere` to create a migration that already has the create table syntax in the file, as shown here: php artisan make:migration create_posts_table --create=posts.
- `migrate`
  The migrate command used to run all migrations was mentioned earlier; see “Running Migrations” on page 98 for details on all the migration-related commands.
- `notifications`
  notifications:table generates a migration that creates the table for database notifications.
- `package`
  Laravel has a manifest generated by its “autodiscover” feature. This registers third-party packages for you when you first install them. package:discover rebuilds Laravel’s “discovered” manifest of the service providers from your external packages.
- `queue`
  We’ll cover Laravel’s queues in Chapter 16, but the basic idea is that you can push jobs up into remote queues to be executed one after another by a worker. This command group provides all the tools you need to interact with your queues, like queue:listen to start listening to a queue, queue:table to create a migration for database-backed queues, and queue:flush to flush all failed queue jobs. There are quite a few more, which you’ll learn about in Chapter 16.
- `route`
  If you run route:list, you’ll see the definitions of every route defined in the application, including each route’s verb(s), path, name, controller/closure action, and middleware. You can cache the route definitions for faster lookups with route:cache and clear your cache with route:clear.
- `schedule`
  We’ll cover Laravel’s cron-like scheduler in Chapter 16, but in order for it to work, you need to set the system cron to run schedule:run once a minute:

```php
* * * * * php /home/myapp.com/artisan schedule:run >> /dev/null 2>&1
```

As you can see, this Artisan command is intended to be run regularly in order to
power a core Laravel service.

- `session`
  session:table creates a migration for applications using database-backed
  sessions.
- `storage`
  storage:link creates a symbolic link from public/storage to storage/app/public.
  This is a common convention in Laravel apps, to make it easy to put user uploads
  (or other files that commonly end up in storage/app) somewhere where they’ll be
  accessible at a public URL.
- `vendor`
  Some Laravel-specific packages need to “publish” some of their assets, either so
  that they can be served from your public directory or so that you can modify
  them. Either way, these packages register these “publishable assets” with Laravel,
  and when you run vendor:publish, it publishes them to their specified locations.
- `view`
  Laravel’s view rendering engine automatically caches your views. It usually does a
  good job of handling its own cache invalida
